README.md, before:

# gimagesearch-tensorflow-classifier
A classifier similar to the google image search tool; categories: face, photo, clip art, line drawing
... with a state of the art GUI!


## Prerequisites
- Python 3.5 with pip (I used Anaconda)


## Setting up
```
pip install tensorflow
pip install tensorflow_hub
pip install flask
```
There may be other requirements which I missed; just do a pip install of whatever missing module pops up


## Firing up the app
#### Windows only
Linux users, I'm sure you'll figure out how to rewrite the complex start script :)
```
start.cmd
```


## Enriching the dataset
- Make a google image search
- Scroll down until images become irrelevant to your model
- Open the browser console
- Paste the js code from ``gimages_dataset_builder/js_console.js`` as indicated in the file's comments
- A ``urls.txt`` file will be downloaded with the paths to all images in the search

### Downloading images
Dataset builder params example (``photo_urls`` is the ``urls.txt`` exported by the js script)
```
--urls gimages_dataset_builder\image_lists\photo_urls --output tensorflow_classifier\input\photo
```


## Retraining the model
#### Uses ``https://www.tensorflow.org/hub/modules/google/imagenet/inception_v3/feature_vector/1`` by default
```
--image_dir input --summaries_dir model/retrain_logs --output_labels model/output_labels.txt --output_graph model/output_graph.pb
 --print_misclassified_test_images
 --random_crop 10 --random_scale 10 --random_brightness 10 --flip_left_right
```

Commit message:

Retrained with more images, updated readme to reflect final state, removed bottleneck files

README.md, after:

# gimagesearch-tensorflow-classifier
A classifier similar to the google image search tool; categories: face, photo, clip art, line drawing
... with a state of the art GUI!


## Prerequisites
- Python 3.5 with pip (I used Anaconda)


## Setting up
```
pip install tensorflow
pip install tensorflow_hub
pip install flask
```
There may be other requirements which I missed; just do a pip install of whatever missing module pops up


## Firing up the app
#### Windows only
Linux users, I'm sure you'll figure out how to rewrite the complex start script :)
```
start.cmd
```


## Enriching the dataset
- Make a google image search
- Scroll down until images become irrelevant to your model
- Open the browser console
- Paste the js code from ``gimages_dataset_builder/js_console.js`` as indicated in the file's comments
- A ``urls.txt`` file will be downloaded with the paths to all images in the search
- Download the images using the download script

### Downloading images
Image downloader params example (``photo_urls`` is the ``urls.txt`` exported by the js script)
```
--urls gimages_dataset_builder\image_lists\photo_urls --output tensorflow_classifier\input\photo
```
This will automatically avoid unsupported formats and try to delete invalid images at the end, however, invalid images may still remain (sometimes, image extensions are not correct).
If you get an error during training, just delete the image.


## Retraining the model
#### Defaults:
- model: https://www.tensorflow.org/hub/modules/google/imagenet/inception_v3/feature_vector/1
- learning rate: 0.01
- steps: 4000
```
--image_dir input --summaries_dir model/retrain_logs --output_labels model/output_labels.txt --output_graph model/output_graph.pb
 --print_misclassified_test_images
```
Using the included dataset and the params above, on a Core i5 @ 3.3Ghz + Nvidia GTX 970 using latest tensorflow-gpu, CUDA, cuDNN it took ~ 25 mins
I also attempted to use ``--random_crop 10 --random_scale 10 --random_brightness 10 --flip_left_right`` but training took way too long on my machine (30 mins for 30 steps).
